translatr version 0.1.0

by sephiroth99

translatr is used to extract subtitles and localisation data from the Tomb
Raider games made by Crystal Dynamics (TRL, TRA, TRU, LCGoL). All that text is
saved to a single file named "translations.xml", which can the be edited.
Currently, only English language text is extracted. There are two sources for
the text: subtitles come from ".mul" files, and other localisation text (eg.
menus) come from a file named "locals.bin".

translatr is also used to patch back a modified "translations.xml". It will
create patched ".mul" and locals.bin files, which can then be used into the
game. The method to do this is explained below.

translatr can then be used to translate the game into an originally
"unsupported" language. The spoken language will still be English though. It
can also be used to create funny cutscenes by changing the subtitles to stupid
things ;)


How to use:
*Extract mode: translatr extract bigfile_path [patch_path]

Arguments:
 bigfile_path: path to folder where bigfile.000 was extracted
 patch_path  : (optional) path to folder where patch.000 was extracted

To unpack files from the game, use Gibbed.TombRaider.Unpack from Rick (see
below).
If the game has a patch (like TRU and LCGoL), it is recommended to install and
unpack it, as it will make patching back the modifications easier.

*Patch mode  : translatr apply translations_path
 translations_path: path to modified translations.xml file

This will create the new files in a folder named "newpatch". If a patch.000
archive was specified during extract mode, the patch will be inserted too. You
can then pack the patch archive back, replace it in the game directory and
enjoy!

Unfortunately, this will not work for TRL and TRA as they do not have a
separate patch archive. You will have to copy the content of the "newpatch"
folder into the folder where the bigfile.000 was extracted. Then, you have to
pack the "bigfile.000" archive. It is much longer than just packing the patch
files, but it is the only way.

To pack a folder into an archive, use Gibbed.DeuxEx3.Pack from Rick (see
below). You will have to modify it to support Tomb Raider though.

---
For the tool used to unpack and pack archives (bigfiles) see Rick's SVN at:
http://svn.gib.me/public/deusex3/
Rick's Website: http://blog.gib.me/

This code is released to the public domain, do what you want with it!
